README.md, before:

# sws-tech-test

This is my response to the technical test. The specification of the test are not public and are pretty specific to the
organisation. So I've decided not to reproduce them here.

## Running on your local machine

### Requirements

* .Net Core 5 ([download](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download))

### Process (MacOS)

* Clone repo to your local machine
* Run the following in the root of your local working copy of the git repo

```
cd App
dotnet restore
dotnet run
```

Note: This will take some time the first time as it will do a `npm install` for the React front-end. It does not provide
any feedback while this is done so it looks like it has hung.

When done you should see something like this:
!![dotnet run success](docs/imgs/dotnet_run_success.png "dotnet run success")

In your browser,, go to [http://localhost:5000](http://localhost:5000)

To query the backend service directly browse to:

* [https://localhost:5001/Companies](https://localhost:5001/Companies)
* [https://localhost:5001/Companies?includePrices=false](https://localhost:5001/Companies?includePrices=false)
* [https://localhost:5001/Companies?includePrices=true](https://localhost:5001/Companies?includePrices=true)

## Description of Solution

The solution consists of a .Net Core backend service that exposes the `/companies` endpoint which returns a list of
companies (with or without prices). It also serves a React/Typescript frontend.

The backend service doesn't have much logic. So I went with simple
architecture, ([YAGNI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_aren%27t_gonna_need_it)). Instead, choosing to spend more time
on the front-end. Also I plan to port the backend to Node/TypeScript.

For the frontend, I used [material-ui](https://material-ui.com/) as and [nivo](https://nivo.rocks/).

### Testing

The backend service didn't include a huge amount of logic. So I limited testing with

### Things I guessed/changed/left-out/do-if-I-had-more-time

I would not be as unilateral in a real-life situation but instead more collaborative with the product managers and
designers. But lacking easy access to either, here is a list of things I think I have and/or maybe strayed from the
specs.

#### Overall snowflake score

There is an overall total score, which I have used for sorting. But the docs linked too also show a radar chart, so I've
chosen to do the same.

#### Volatility

The specifications have:

> By price fluctuations or volatility in price within the last 90 days

Unlike a company’s overall snowflake score, there were no explicit details on "fluctuation" or "volatility". Based on
some Googling, I decided to use standard deviation.

Also, the price data in the database image provided was a year old. Hence, if I were to limit to "90 days", there would
be no price data for any companies. So I left out filtering the data to the last 90 days.

The specifications also said the results in the frontend should be sortable by volatility. However, it did not list
volatility as one of the bits of data that should be displayed. So I’ve added the sorting to the “Price” column but
sorted by the “volatility” metric.

If I had more time, I would have added a “volatility” column along with a chart showing the volatility and then sorted
by that, much like I’ve done for the “Score” column.

Commit message:

Update process for running on local machine

README.md, after:

# sws-tech-test

This is my 2nd response to a technical test. The first used C# .Net Core for the backend, that has been replaced with a Node/Express/Typescript backend.
 
The specification of the test are not public and are pretty specific to the
organisation. So I've decided not to reproduce them here.

## Running on your local machine

### Requirements

* `yarn` ([Installation MacOS](https://classic.yarnpkg.com/en/docs/install/#mac-stable))

### Process (MacOS)

* Clone repo to your local machine
* Run the following in the root of your local working copy of the git repo:
```
cd backend && yarn install && yarn start
```

When done, it should look like this:
![backend start success](docs/imgs/backend_start_success.png "backend start success")

In a second terminal window run, also at the root of your local working copy:
```
cd front-end && yarn install && yarn start
```

![front-end start success](docs/imgs/front-end_start_success.png "backend start success")

## Description of Solution

### Overview

TODO - Update this 

The solution consists of a .Net Core backend service that exposes the `/companies` endpoint which returns a list of
companies (with or without prices). It also serves a React/Typescript frontend.

The backend service doesn't have much logic. So I went with simple
architecture, ([YAGNI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_aren%27t_gonna_need_it)). Instead, choosing to spend more time
on the front-end. Also I plan to port the backend to Node/TypeScript.

For the frontend, I used [material-ui](https://material-ui.com/) as and [nivo](https://nivo.rocks/).

### Testing

The backend service didn't include a huge amount of logic. So I limited testing with

### Things I guessed/changed/left-out/do-if-I-had-more-time

I would not be as unilateral in a real-life situation but instead more collaborative with the product managers and
designers. But lacking easy access to either, here is a list of things I think I have and/or maybe strayed from the
specs.

#### Overall snowflake score

There is an overall total score, which I have used for sorting. But the docs linked too also show a radar chart, so I've
chosen to do the same.

#### Volatility

The specifications have:

> By price fluctuations or volatility in price within the last 90 days

Unlike a company’s overall snowflake score, there were no explicit details on "fluctuation" or "volatility". Based on
some Googling, I decided to use standard deviation.

Also, the price data in the database image provided was a year old. Hence, if I were to limit to "90 days", there would
be no price data for any companies. So I left out filtering the data to the last 90 days.

The specifications also said the results in the frontend should be sortable by volatility. However, it did not list
volatility as one of the bits of data that should be displayed. So I’ve added the sorting to the “Price” column but
sorted by the “volatility” metric.

If I had more time, I would have added a “volatility” column along with a chart showing the volatility and then sorted
by that, much like I’ve done for the “Score” column.
